If it went off the air tomorrow, still
wouldn't shed a tear. I'm Wesley Morris
and this is Cannonball today.
They call it the late show, but I mean,
they're putting it to bed awfully early.
>> Sleepy time.
>> I almost can't believe I'm saying this,
but tonight is the last episode of The
Late Show with Stephen Colbert.
CBS
has done pulled the plug.
Probably prematurely, but I mean, what
can the late night television whose
thing for drama sometimes brings it
closer to daytime soap. But now, the
crisis
I don't know, it's existential. There's
no talk show going into the late night
slot. Meanwhile, over at ABC, Jimmy
Kimmel lives in almost weekly risk of
cancellation now. And you know, their
crimes can basically be boiled down to
offending the president. But this one
late night show that keeps on keeping on
and [music]
maybe it's also time to put that one
down.
It's been 51 years and it really might
be time to say goodbye to Saturday Night
Live.
>> Thanks for letting ME STAY AWHILE.
[cheering]
>> [applause]
>> FOR the last 5 years, I have thought
now's the time. Just end it. End it.
This show was never about polish and
part of the draw is the chaos and magic
of live television where, you know,
anything can go wrong.
>> [laughter]
>> And you've always had to put up with
weak sketches, but it wasn't always this
sad. SNL used to do it for me. I'd pick
an obvious recurring sketch like
The Californians.
>> Maybe you should get going before Stuart
could turn.
>> All right. I'll sing and I'll take Can
you drive to San Vicente and then make a
left and go on 405 North from there.
Just get off on Mulholland.
>> I mean, it was supposed to be a joke on
>> [laughter]
>> I don't know, so many things. Soap
operas, LA's driving culture, the rich,
Chardonnay.
>> I think you should go home now, Devin.
>> [laughter]
>> There's nothing going on, Stuart.
>> YOU SHOULD GO HOME.
>> [laughter]
>> I MEAN, one of the things that's funny
about this sketch also is just
you know, somebody is going to lose.
It also managed to transcend satire and
turn it into this amazing kind of
nonsense sketch. Whenever the writing
dies, the comedy is still there for the
Californians. And then it could take
whatever was topical and like hook that
to a great character. Sometimes you get
a catchphrase. I'm Hans and Franz and
we're here to pump
you up. And then there's, you know,
Dieter doing his little Sprock it dance.
Dun dun dun dun dun dun.
Sorry.
And then Sally O'Malley doing the I'm
50.
>> 50 years old.
>> And Colleen Rafferty
>> I told you [laughter] that there was one
gray alien by a door.
>> Colleen Rafferty's like Pentagon alien
abduction interrogations. They're just
like
>> Look at one of my worst Wednesday
nights.
>> Five stars.
But, you know, it's been a minute since
the show created a character with that
kind of stickiness. This 51st season has
been a really dry. The show actually
needs maybe more stars, but it
definitely needs sharper ideas to turn
some of this cast into stars. Plus, I
mean, I just think the show's become
extremely reliant on celebrities and
trendiness.
>> Director of the FBI, Mr. Cash Patel.
>> [cheering]
>> Famous people have made cameos. They've
been making cameos throughout the
history of the show. And sometimes magic
can happen when they do. But a lot of
the time I'm just home watching hungry
for some laughs. Take this sketch from
this season with Teyana Taylor that's
supposed to be a joke on the Broncos and
Monday Night Football.
>> So, what's your name?
>> Uh
Jared Stidham.
>> Who now?
>> Jared Stidham. I'm Denver's starting
quarterback tonight.
>> What exactly is the point of this
sketch?
>> He said, "Well, we got a great team
here. I think we can win this game."
Yeah, but Jared, come on.
Back to you, Troy.
>> Is it that the Broncos quarterback has
no personality? That Lisa Salters is bad
at her job or that her job is just
weird?
>> And speaking of surprises, it's one part
sugar and all part spice this week on an
all new Quefs.
>> Is it that Troy and Joe Buck are so
square and lame that it'd be funny
hearing them say the word Quefs over and
over again?
>> Our keys to the game brought to you by
FanDuel and [music]
oh my god, talking Quefs.
>> All it makes me want to do is watch
Quefs.
>> [laughter]
>> I want to change the channel from
whatever these people are doing just to
watch this fake show that is also
probably just as bad, but it'll
definitely be more interesting than this
non-satire satire. So, now
I'm actually just wondering
>> [laughter]
>> is it time
is it time for Saturday Night Live to
just become
Saturday Night Dead?
But wait. Please, please wait. Sorry. Um
don't hang up. I I actually know a lot
of smart people who don't agree with
this opinion. Like my guest today, Jason
Zinoman. He's a critic at the Times.
[music] And you know, he's a great
thinker about comedy and late night TV
in general. I just wanted to talk about
The Late Show going out of business and
what the value of keeping a show like
SNL around might be.
>> We're going TO LIVE FOREVER. WOW!
>> SO, we're going to talk about whether
it's worth saving and whether
I'm wrong.
Jason Zinoman,
welcome to Cannonball.
Uh
I'm going to start by telling you just
something that
was on my mind last year.
>> Please.
>> Saturday Night Live turns 50 years old.
>> If you want to KNOW WHAT IT TAKES TO
MAKE A SHOW like this last for 50 years,
it's these people right around me.
>> And during the year of celebration of
this 50th anniversary I mean, it went on
from
what, February to December? I don't want
to cast aspersions. I enjoyed a lot of
it. But what I thought during that
experience was
what if it just ended tonight? It was a
good 50 years. Do I need a 51st? I don't
even think I needed like 37.
But
that's me.
Where are you
in terms of your relationship to this
show? I mean, if it ended tomorrow, how
would you feel?
>> I'd be upset. I'd be upset. I mean, I
have been where you are.
>> Oh, talk to me.
>> Yeah, I mean, in fact, I think one of
the greatest traditions of Saturday
Night Live
>> is wishing
>> is hating Saturday Night Live.
>> Sure. Okay.
>> And specifically saying it used to be
better. Right? That's what That's what
everyone does. And the cliché is true,
certainly with me, that the uh your
favorite cast is your first cast. I I
first watched it and it was the
Christopher Guest, Martin Short
Billy Crystal year, unlike any other
year, and I fell in love with it there.
And then I got hooked on it with the
like Jan Hooks, Phil Hartman,
>> Classic.
>> that Dana Carvey. So I love that period,
right? And that's the greatest, right?
And then you got a moment I I don't
exactly track on this perfectly, but
pretty close. Where you have a moment
where you see other sketch shows, right?
You see Monty Python, you see
Chappelle's Show,
>> Mhm.
>> you see Mr. Show, Key & Peele, and
you're like, this is funnier.
>> Kids in the Hall.
>> the whole thing. are all more ambitious,
funnier, better crafted
comedy. Why isn't SNL as good as this,
right? And then you say, you know, this
is terrible, it's bad. You know, you
start hating SNL, right? I've I've been
there. I've also felt like it would be
better if it's gone. And I've now
admitted a new state. Now, part of it,
full disclosure, is part of our jobs is
to to follow the stuff.
>> Sure.
>> So, I might have checked out
>> Mhm.
>> if it wasn't for a professional
responsibility, right? But I never did
check out, right? And I've come to see
that the those shows we mentioned
are doing something fundamentally
different than Saturday Night Live.
>> Which is what?
>> So, Saturday Night Live is actually not
trying to be It's not organized to be
the funniest show possible.
>> It's not
>> No, it doesn't want to be that.
>> It's not organized to be or it is
retroactively saying, you know, what? We
were never organized to be the funniest
show.
>> I don't I think the way Lorne Michaels
has organized the making of that show
>> Okay.
>> is as opposed to these other shows,
right? It is deliberately not set up to
be consistently as funny as it can be.
>> Okay.
>> Right? So, what's it trying to be,
right? And what what are the evidence of
it?
>> I want [clears throat] to start with
what it's how it's not set up to do
that.
>> All right. So, first off, it's live.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Second of all, it's weekly,
>> Yeah.
>> and and it's weekly in this very
peculiar way. This way has sort of
developed over time with it they write
these sketches last second,
>> Mhm.
>> right? And the biggest thing is the
cast, right? This is the most
prestigious show in comedy on
television. They could have anybody they
want. They always get young unknowns.
So, what do they what why do they do
that?
>> Mhm.
>> And I think there's a couple What they
want to be is relevant,
topical,
and
exciting.
>> Mhm.
>> And one of the things about having young
cast members
is you see the making of a star.
There's something particularly exciting
about seeing one of these SNL cast
members. And there's no doubt, right,
that SNL has produced more superstars in
comedy than any other platform. That's
>> That's not what we're here to talk
about, right?
>> No.
>> [laughter]
>> No, I mean, there's no argument for me.
>> No, I know, but but I like I'll give you
a comparison. Like, I was watching the
the Spurs playoff game.
>> Mhm.
>> Dylan Harper
>> had this incredible game. And in sports,
it's fun. We know Wemby's great, but we
see this rookie and do something
incredible and you're like, "Oh wait,
this guy's going to
>> also
>> He could be one of the
>> players in the game.
>> Yes.
>> That happens at SNL in the way it
doesn't happen in other shows
consistently. And it happened this year.
It happened this year with Ashley
Padilla, right?
>> Okay.
>> And there's an excitement to that that
is part of what the show does and cares
about more than getting the most
polished
funniest sketches that they possibly can
every week and the most polished cast
every week, right? And I think, you
know,
yes, that 50th anniversary celebration
went overboard, right? But what did it
What did it also say? Look at the
interest in that show, right? How many
things in
>> You mean the network generated interest?
>> No, no.
>> or you mean our like a viewer, a
Saturday Night Live fans or regular
watchers interest.
>> I mean, you're you're 100% right. There
is like a media interest and there's a
network pushing it, right? But um I
don't think there's anything else in
comedy right now that appeals to
multiple generations.
>> Mhm. Mhm.
>> No, my my kids, teenage they don't They
don't share the same interests that
their parents do, right? They don't
watch same things, but they're
interested in SNL, right? They talk
about us It's one of the few things left
in the culture, right? Where we have
this common thing we can talk about over
generations. It's unique and I think
it's the remarkable thing, right? You
know, this year we've seen a
or last year there was a book on Lorne
Michaels by Susan Morrison, which I
recommend, and there was a documentary
by Morgan Neville.
And you really see that like he's a
singular producer. He's the great
producer of our time. He's managed to
keep the show a television show
relevant, not just on TV, but relevant
for 50 years. Now I what what he hasn't
done there are things we probably agree
on. It's often terrible. There's the
sketches are hit and miss sometimes.
>> And there I mean every every week
there's a there's a hit and miss and the
I don't know about you Jason, but I
watch this show still to this day in its
entirety.
I go from you know, the cold open to
the 10 minutes to one or the 10 to one
or whatever they call it. I mean, I'm
there for most of the show.
Um
and I just feel like
many times
there's there's no there's no there's
not one sketch here
that either lets a cast member shine or
they miss shine
um
or
I just don't know how this even got out
of the garage onto the set
and then into my home.
And I I wonder I don't really these cast
members aren't that exciting as a class
to me.
Um they're often indistinguishable. I
find often especially in sketches where
the cast members have to like be dressed
the same. I can't tell anybody apart
sometimes.
Um but I guess I would wonder like what
we lose without it. Um
>> But would you would you agree with this?
If we lost it, nothing replaces it.
Nothing would fill its space and if
anything would fill its space
it would be something
fundamentally smaller and of lower
ambition. What what I learned from the
Susan Morrison book and the documentary
is that it's a tremendously inefficient
show. It's got it's got a ridiculous
budget that doesn't make any sense for
for
in 2026. You know, it's one of these
like dinosaurs that operates like the
internet didn't happen and they've got
all of these and one of the beauty
beautiful things about SNL is because it
has all these inefficiencies, right? And
we see this in the media, too. It's like
we're so we're so damn efficient, right?
That we only do these narrow things,
right?
There is room for out of like a lot of
mediocrity or worse for weird stuff to
bubble up.
>> That's true. Yes. I mean, so this plays
as a
potential, you know, lab for weird
stuff. And look, in 50 years, I have
seen some of the funniest, weirdest
things
I did I still think about because I saw
them on SNL. You're right? I mean,
Toonces the driving cat. Not Not Not
like even close to the weirdest Not even
close to the weirdest thing that's
happened on the show, right?
>> See, I I told you HE COULD DRIVE.
>> TOONCES, LOOK OUT!
>> YES.
>> BUT LIKE I MEAN, JUST A THING THAT IS
LATCHED like a completely illogical
>> Yes.
>> feat of irreverence that is like just it
lives in me, right? The theme song lives
in me. This is all to say like I I
I understand the value of the show. I
just think it's batting average has
gotten very low.
>> Well, you know, I Let's just let let me
even if you stipulate the show's
terrible, right? Every everything you
say is, you know, it's no good, right?
There's no denying that it's done a good
job of get of weeding through people and
cycling new people and then reinventing
itself while keeping the same bones of
what it is.
>> Oh, yes. It hasn't changed in 51 years.
>> But people have changed.
>> Yes, the people have changed.
>> that that is like you've got like a hit
show and you're going to
bring these new people. That's part of
the DNA of the show, right? And I think
it's one of the strengths of the show.
It's one of the reasons why it's a
flexible institution. And like I think
historically they've always come from
improv houses.
>> Yes.
>> And there's, you know, with some
stand-up sprinkled in.
And I think a few years ago they started
to go more try to find people more from
the internet, right?
>> And the reason that I think
you know, Ashley
>> I think
>> successful
one, she's older than most of them.
She's 32.
>> Mhm.
>> She's had some experience and she's had
specifically the Groundlings, old school
SNL. She's actually an actress.
>> Is she the only Groundlings
veteran or graduate or
>> I think Mikey Day and Chloe Fineman also
have Groundlings.
>> Who at this point are veterans on the
show.
>> older I think they're before this shift,
right? And but I think
Ashley is bringing something different
to the mix.
>> Chops.
>> [laughter]
>> You wrote a wonderful piece about
sort of close reading what she's been
doing this season on the show.
And I think one of the best sketches on
this season this year was the was the
I guess we'll call her the MAGA mom.
>> Yep.
>> Talk about the MAGA mom sketch and like
how the how the how the
levels work in that sketch.
>> mom sketch is a great example, I think,
of sort of
SNL operating at its best right now.
It's about this thing that we've seen
all over the place, which is and how
frustrating it can be, which is
[laughter] somebody
realizing
>> That's the comedy of it.
>> 10 years late, oh, I'm going to have a
Oh, turns out Donald Trump doesn't
always tell the truth and I'm going to
convert. And it's about
both the kind of preening naivete of
that of that
>> the family to sit in the living room to
talk to her kids because she has an
announcement.
>> Oh, okay. What is it, Mom?
>> Is everything okay?
>> I'm only going to say it
if after I do
you promise you will not react.
No talking.
No faces.
No nothing.
>> Mom, what is going on?
>> Yeah, you're scaring us.
>> So, it's topical, but it's also about
changing your mind and the ability to
show grace to this person changing their
mind, right?
>> Which she asks them to show her, right?
>> Exactly. Part of her wind up to
revealing this about herself is this
character is like, "But you have to be
nice. And when I tell you what I'm about
to tell you, you cannot react."
>> What I have to tell you
is I may have changed my mind
about Trump.
>> [laughter]
>> WHAT?
>> [screaming]
>> SO, THE LEVELS ARE SHE'S SHE'S TELLING
THEM SHE'S had this conversion, but she
really wants them to get mad and to get
mad at them back, which speaks to our
political moment. We all would rather
fight with each other than
>> See, I ACTUALLY SEE, I TOLD YOU.
>> [laughter]
>> I TOLD YOU YOU COULDN'T HANDLE IT.
THAT'S WHY PEOPLE hate you
>> on the left. So, it's it's politically
smart, it's like emotionally smart, but
I would argue the core [laughter] of it,
the core the reason it actually is funny
is her timing.
>> Uh-huh.
>> She has Nobody else would deliver those
lines the way she would. There's like a
a musicality, a baseline to the way she
delivers them up.
>> She's listening to whatever else is
Whatever is happening with the four
people on the sofa and what Alexander
Skarsgård is doing who plays her husband
in the sketch, and she's timing whatever
it is she's doing in some ways to what
she's hearing.
>> Completely. Completely in the moment to
like you You see again another I think
essential part of Saturday Night Live is
the live part of it.
>> Mhm.
>> And they're breaking.
>> The The kids The people The actors
playing the kids are breaking in that
moment. And they're trying They're both
trying not to laugh in character and in
as as actors, right?
>> The things that are happening,
no one could have seen coming.
>> [laughter]
>> And the fun of that I get becomes not
about politics or about this family. It
becomes about us watching these sketch
performers trying not to break in a way
that can only be suspenseful in a show
that you know is live.
>> They made me feel worried
about trans people.
But now I'm realizing
I don't really get what the problem is.
>> We'll come back to this live situation.
Um but I want to come back to Ashley
Padilla for a second because the other
thing that's great about her
is cuz you really you convinced I mean I
knew I liked her, but then I then you
then you sort of put that spotlight on
her. And then the other thing that's
great about her in these sketches is she
has a wonderful voice. There are two
great voices on this show right now. The
other one is Marcelo Hernandez and they
need to figure out something to do with
that voice.
>> Yes.
>> Um he should have four characters.
>> Yeah,
I mean
>> Oh, you want me to want you to gang stop
her?
I did not ask what you wanted.
>> And that's an impersonation, but he's
identified. He knows what's funny and
ridiculous about that guy.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> Um but Ashley Padilla, there's something
just mellifluous
in her raised voice.
>> Yep.
>> Fine.
But I swear to God,
if I hear a single I told you so, I WILL
GO SEE THE MELANIA MOVIE TONIGHT.
>> I THINK her and Marcelo
are the backbone right now. But, there's
I mean
I think Sarah Sherman does something
specific that is really interesting and
all the her kind of I'm you know, the
gore stuff that she does is interesting.
And there's a few like I I I I I I can't
say this is like a great year. But, this
is a year that showed promise. So, let's
look at that. So, the sketch I want to
point to is which is which is uh
auctioneers in a crumbling marriage.
This is with Sarah Sherman and uh Matt
Damon and it's
>> this sketch.
>> 10:00 to 1:00 sketch where they they
take a big swing.
>> Which means you're asleep and the best
sketch has happened.
>> Oops.
>> Here's a big difference between
>> That doesn't always happen, which is why
we go to sleep. I just want to say.
>> Like I didn't watch this episode live.
>> Mhm.
>> just like woke up and saw people talking
about
>> Okay.
>> And they were talking about this sketch.
>> I'm home, honey bunny, honey bunny,
honey bunny. Can I get a smile? Can I
get a hi? Can I get a hello, honey
bunny? Can I get a hi? Honey bunny,
honey bunny.
>> Well, LOOK WHO COMES CRAWLING HOME LATE
AS SIN. Where have you been been been
been been been been been been been been
been been
>> This sketch is a satire of Scenes from a
Marriage and it's these this couple
who's having a marital spat, but they're
speaking in like the familiar cadence of
an auctioneer who's saying, you know,
1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4, right? And the
idea is what if these people always talk
like that, right? But, without ever
explaining it or underlining it.
>> You said you'd be home by 8:00, 8:15,
8:30, 8:35 with traffic. Now, it's
11:45, 11:50. Do I hear 11:55, 55, 55,
55, 55, 59? BULLS COMING FROM the man
past his prime in a cowboy hat.
>> And so, they start doing it and they and
they sort of establish the premise of
the joke. And it and to some degree it's
belongs to the genre of like hitting the
same beat over and over again. But, what
makes it I think
escalate
is they start doing kind of tongue
twisters.
>> Yes.
>> Almost almost immediately, though. Yeah?
>> No. No. No. No. NO. NO. MAYBE.
>> I WOULD NEVER BUY HER BUTTER CUZ I KNOW
YOUR BUTTER'S BETTER.
>> And they get more and more difficult,
right? So, it becomes about language.
It's a comedy of language, right?
>> And it's about and you know, I SNL as
worse as all about cue cards.
>> Mhm.
>> I That's what drives me nuts.
>> Well, Jason, this is a huge pet peeve of
mine.
>> Me too.
>> It's gotten more cue cardy
>> Yes.
>> as the years go on.
>> Agreed.
>> And the more famous the person, the less
time there is to This is like such a
tangent. Anyway, keep
>> No. No. No. I'm with you. I'm with you.
And I I mean, I think I could justify it
because of the the the ridiculous
structure of it.
>> I didn't catch Matt Damon. He definitely
had cue cards, but I didn't catch him
looking.
>> Neither did I.
>> I mean, oh, I think Sarah I think maybe
I'm wrong, but I think Sarah Sherman
memorized those lines.
>> [clears throat]
>> Oh, I think these were memorized.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> Like I I mean, they somebody was clearly
there holding something they could see
or however they use the the teleprompter
or cue card situation.
>> Right. Right.
>> But I was really dialed in in a way that
I'm typically not with these sketches
cuz I'm just like looking at them look
past the person they're in a scene with.
>> Yes.
>> But this part of what made this so
thrilling was you've got these two
performers who
are just
preparing They're so prepared.
>> Right.
>> And I mean, it's funny, it's kind of all
awesome, you know,
>> Yes.
>> dictionary definition awesome,
>> to see.
And so, when you see something like
this, and you're just like, this this is
what should happen every week.
>> The cue cards drive me nuts, Jason.
>> And I just was watching some old
sketches, just to see like, is was this
always true? And it wasn't.
>> Mhm.
>> It or like, it wasn't as obvious the
like, the Trump loey of the where the
cue cards were placed and the actors
were blocked. Must have been different
or something. Cuz I can't catch Glenn
Close using those cue cards.
>> Right, right, right, right.
>> Um you know, the great
Patrick Swayze uh Chris Farley dance off
to become a a Chippendales dancer.
>> This is impossible. Can't we just hire
them both?
>> No. We've been through this. We've only
got the budget for one dancer.
>> Yeah, but they're both so great. I can't
decide between them.
>> I don't know. I mean, even if they are
reading, Mike Myers, Kevin Nealon, and
Jan Hooks play the the judges of this
dance off between Patrick Swayze and
Chris Farley. I don't see any cue cards
happening there. And I'm not thinking
about it.
>> I wish I could just flip a coin and be
done with it, but we can't.
We're Chippendales.
Marcy, music.
>> [music]
>> Right. That's actually a great example
because this is what SNL do has always
done well, which is that even though
some amazing writers have come through
there, like, you know, you talk the you
know, George Meyer, the Toonses, all
sorts of brilliant Conan, obviously,
it's fundamentally about performers.
>> Yes.
>> Um and
that Patrick Swayze and Chris Farley,
they
they're [laughter]
just
the commitment is hilarious, right?
>> [music]
>> Everyone's wondering
who will come
out tonight.
Everyone's trying
>> [music]
>> to get in.
>> And it's timeless because of those
performers. And that's when the cue
cards kind of are they there? Are they
not? Doesn't matter. It doesn't like the
lines don't matter like the
it's that's why if you compare it there
there are sketch shows like I would say
you know Mr. Show, Monty Python which
lean on the cleverness of the premise
and the the you know the the wit of the
lines.
>> Yeah, but those are those are taped
shows.
>> Yes.
>> Um you know the same was true for Kids
in the Hall. Like one of the I mean you
know to me I was always happier to watch
Kids in the Hall. Great Canadian sketch
show
than SNL most of the time. But I think
that
anyway
>> possible also to support your point it's
possible to do both. Like the Ben
Stiller Show comes to mind.
>> Oh my god THE BEN STILLER SHOW
>> [laughter]
>> ONE of the great sketch shows I mean
ever
>> And like is that writerly was that
performance? It was both.
>> both.
>> It was both. So you could this
>> And that show had a deep bench.
>> Oh my god yes. Yes so great so great
with with Janeane Garofalo and
>> you just I've totally forgot about the
Ben Stiller Show but [laughter] I
watched it every week. When Ben Stiller
started I was like
Yeah Ben Stiller in Living Color to me
many weeks was a better sketch show than
Saturday Night Live right?
>> not live taped didn't matter cuz it
still people broke.
>> Yep.
>> Right? Like the actors would break
there'd be crazy things that would
happen in these sketches that like
you're you can't believe is happening in
primetime let alone in 11:52.
Um
but so I think there's like a kind of
professionalism that
I mean just like com- professionalism
that I think is kind of missing now. And
it's just too much of a crapshoot for
me.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> It's just too much of a crapshoot. And
I'm not getting, you know, one Matt
Damon out of what? How many guests did
they have this year? How many episodes?
22 or something?
>> Yeah, Skarsgard, you had some other
dude.
>> Right. I mean
>> But look, look, I do think it goes into
the
uh they could the the liveness of it
is part of it. Like the guest host is a
fascinating
uh anomaly. Nothing else is like that on
television. And it's a huge risk. You're
going to You're going to perhaps torpedo
a whole show if you have somebody who
isn't as talented as Matt Damon.
>> Hello, Tom Brady.
>> Yeah, exactly. There you [laughter] go.
There you go. But you could also get
like anytime John Mulaney is a host,
I'm going to wa- I'm going to be ex- I
mean, you watch it more than I do. I
don't watch every single episode live.
>> watch it every week, but I watch most
weeks. Um okay.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you think the You think
There are things about it Let's just
Let's just Let's just say you talked me
down.
>> I'm glad to hear it. Okay.
>> Let's just say you talked me down.
>> But I also agree I also agree on the
details of your your argument.
>> right, fine. You talked me down. I'm
going to
I want to sort of expand
what we're really talking about here, I
think.
>> Okay.
>> Um because part of the reason that I
started really thinking about this SNL
cancellation question is like
there's another show that's actually
going off the air right now.
>> [laughter]
>> And part of like the scandalous thought
I had was like, is the wrong show being
canceled? Like should should the
should the Stephen Colbert Late Show
should that stay and SNL go? Had a good
run, SNL. It's fine. I would like to now
think about what late night television
is, what it is good for. What is
watching network television after the
news, cuz that's when a lot of these
shows will be every one of these shows
is happening after your local news.
>> Right.
>> What's like 60 years of that for? 70 70
years of that at this point?
>> I mean, it's [clears throat] a really
good question. They're trying to answer
this question. I think you have sort of
two
narratives about this that kind of
contradict each other. On one level, the
internet has made all of its old uses
obsolete.
>> Right.
>> So, I'm saying after the local news for
instance, but like are you really
experiencing Jimmy Kimmel when the local
news on your ABC affiliate goes off the
air?
>> I mean, a lot of people aren't, right?
And then also but so you traditionally
it was so you could, you know, you you
could joke about the day's news. What
happened, right? You could make you can
you could sum up the day before you went
to sleep. And sometimes it was kind of a
sleepy soothing joke like Johnny Carson.
And other times it was a little more
subversive
uh joke like say David Letterman. But by
now, by the time late night comes
around, everybody's already made jokes
about the news on social media
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> TikTok, etc.
Um so, that purpose is done. And then
you've got the purpose of like
conversations with people promoting
stuff or guests being funny. That is
also been replaced by like YouTube, pod-
podcasts, and this kind of thing. So,
there's this narrative which is not
entirely wrong that late night is less
and less relevant. There's less and less
of a purpose to it because of the
internet, right? At the same time,
read the news. The president
is attacking I mean, this is an attack
it's worth like pausing at how crazy
this has never happened that the
president has put a target on all the
late night hosts and is attacking them
consistently and arguably, you know, the
the most effective example of resistance
>> Mhm.
>> didn't come from law firms or
>> universities
>> Not shots.
>> Yeah.
>> Not shots at the law firms.
>> Speak.
>> Let's speak [laughter] our truth.
>> But came from Jimmy Kimmel.
>> Yeah.
>> Came from Jimmy Kimmel.
>> They protested and they they pushed back
Disney. They get They made Disney have a
a backbone, right? And so you can't
exactly call late night irrelevant when
it's the
>> in the crosshairs of, you know, you
know, what we're going to traditionally
say is the most powerful job in the
world.
>> what what what explains this? Why did
people get so outraged and push back on
Disney? Uh is it simply because people
care
more about celebrities than they do
about law partners, right? You did that.
I don't know. I think that
late night is actually a more is as you
point out like an old form that people
have watched with their families.
It has is It's become an institution. I
think that it became more political
starting with The Daily Show. I should
say when
>> the John Stewart version
>> which is 2000-ish.
>> Right.
But it looks like one of the most
surprising things about this Florida
vote is that George W. Bush got 100% of
the African American vote.
>> That made late night much more political
and I think that had
had huge ramifications over what network
late night became.
>> Okay. So we're talking about like this
show which existed on a Viacom channel
called Comedy Central.
>> Yes.
>> Right? Didn't have a huge viewership,
but you know, the arrival of the John
Stewart
era of The Daily Show goosed these other
late night shows that were also that it
was not up against, we should say. Cuz I
mean, for people you just This is
important to say.
>> Yeah.
>> The Daily Show starts at 11:00.
>> Yep. Yep.
>> These late night shows start at 11:35.
>> Yeah.
>> And so you could you were what you I
mean I many times would watch both.
>> Yes. But wait, the other thing about
Stewart, I think and this relates to
SNL, their sketch in The Daily Show, the
the correspondents, and the reason this
is important is there was a moment when
The Daily Show competed with SNL as a
platform for stars. Think of the number
of
>> I've never considered this before. I
mean, yes.
>> Helms, Trevor Noah, obviously, but I'm
I'm missing some Stephen Colbert or um
the I know um
>> Wyatt Cenac was on the show before.
Great correspondents. Great
correspondents.
>> It became a like SNL, a place to make
stars. And it be it really did, you're
right, not necessarily cuz the audience,
but it had a huge impact. And even on
the I remember when like Letterman
started to get more political.
>> It's time for a another new segment on
the program. It's George W. Bush
invigorating
America's youth.
>> [music]
>> Need to maintain spending discipline in
our nation's capital.
I have planned to protect small business
owners and employees.
>> Mhm.
>> And it felt like a reaction to the
success of Daily Show.
>> But I also think that that moment I
mean, it's also important to sort of
think about cuz we're talking about now
some kind of shift in terms of politics
becoming much more a part of the way
late night television functioned. But
you know, I mean, all throughout the
Vietnam War,
you know, during an assortment of
national tragedies, I think what people
wanted from a person like Johnny Carson,
just to pick, you know, the most famous
example of that person practicing the
art form during these tumultuous times,
was to take the temperature down.
>> Yep.
>> Right? Johnny Carson would deliver like
a barbed comment about maybe Nixon?
>> Yep.
>> Um I didn't you know, I haven't seen
every every joke he told during the
Vietnam War, but I'm going to guess he
didn't make a lot of jokes about the
Vietnam War.
Um
and you know, he certainly was good at
making fun of Reagan, but Reagan Reagan
was kind of his homie in some way,
right?
>> I mean it's not how do you balance the
budget? Well, balancing the budget is
like protecting your what?
>> more than you take in, right?
>> It's like protecting your virtue. You
have to learn to say no.
>> [applause]
>> He was he was hardcore institutionalist,
right? Like he was he was the picture of
whatever they mean by institution,
Johnny Carson, even if he didn't want to
be. And you know, but he still
represents in the minds of many people a
kind of like a kind of Americana.
>> They would say he came with the TV.
>> Right.
>> Like and and and he, I think of course
deserves most credit for making late
night the thing that it became, right?
And I and you're right, he he studiously
avoided any kind of politics that would
be
get him into much trouble.
>> Nobody was even thinking about
>> Yes.
>> Uh you know.
>> me ask you this, if if if Carson was
some version of Carson was on today, how
would we receive him?
>> He'd be Jimmy Fallon.
>> Welcome.
I'm Jimmy Fallon and I'll be your host
for now.
Right?
>> I mean he's not quite the the pal in you
know,
like
pet that Jimmy Fallon has made himself
into.
Um but he'd be Jimmy Fallon. I mean that
the the thing about The Tonight Show, I
believe, is that it could never have
handled a Letterman. As much as
Letterman wanted that job.
>> good point.
>> He wanted to host that show so bad, he
would have lasted
I don't know how long he would have
lasted, but it wouldn't have been long.
>> I agree.
>> Because I think that the guardrails that
come with the job, you're either you
either don't see them as guardrails or
you chafe against them. So, I mean, I
guess the question here, cuz now what
we're really talking about is the end of
Stephen Colbert's
show.
>> Yes.
>> And not just Stephen Colbert's show, The
Late Show.
>> But we're at the end here, so
uh all bets are off. Let's get to it.
Here we go.
Yes!
>> The reasons the show is are being
canceled include, I mean, cuz we we
really don't know. I'm putting I'm
making I'm making quotes with my
fingers. Like, the show costs the show
loses I I've been I've read like as much
as $40 million a week.
Um
>> We don't know.
>> But I'm just telling you what I I'm just
telling you what I read.
>> No, no, I of course.
>> Uh but also Skydance Paramount merger.
You know.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Like the interest in in
eliminating a friction point that also,
if you believe what is also being said,
is a very expensive, you know, thorn in
your side if you need the administration
to approve this deal.
>> Yep.
>> Why not just make something go away and
you save a lot of money? Whether he's
beloved or not, I mean, maybe somebody
was like, he'll just find another job.
It's fine.
>> Yeah.
>> But, you know, if he's not the only
person making this show every day.
>> No, no.
>> Yes, huge staff.
>> Yes, yes.
>> Um and so, I don't know. What really
are we What are we losing
when this show no longer comes on Monday
through Friday?
>> I think
there is a First of all, I think he's
the best conversationalist on late night
right now. I think there's a soulfulness
to Stephen Colbert. Like, there's a He
had Keanu Reeves on and he asked him
>> What do you think happens when we die,
Keanu Reeves?
>> He had a pause and he's like
>> I know that the ones who love us will
miss us.
>> You can't imagine Jimmy Fallon that
happened on the night show. You can't
really imagine it and can't
>> turned it into a game on Jimmy Fallon.
[laughter]
>> They turned it into a game.
>> Like, we're going to play WHAT HAPPENS
WHEN YOU DIE.
>> YES, YES, YES. There was
>> Sabrina Carpenter, you ready to go?
We're going to Velcro you to the side of
the wall and Questlove is going to throw
a basketball at your head while you
answer the question, what happens when
you die?
>> Yes, yes, yes. No, there is a um
You know it
>> I love that by the way. I enjoy the
games on the Jimmy Fallon show.
>> Look, hey look, [laughter] there's a
play and look, that's winning. That was
on Ellen show, that was on this show,
but what the what's gone, there is we to
some degree
what will
you know, what we lose depending on what
replaces it. And what is replacing it?
Byron Allen's Comics Unleashed.
>> Please, Jason, I
I just ate.
>> [laughter]
>> This is not the place to be trying to
release my bowels.
>> [laughter]
>> You know what Norm Macdonald said about
being on his show? Comics Unleashed. He
said comics have never been more
leashed.
>> [laughter]
>> It's not going to cause any
>> This show, by the way, for anybody who
has never watched it is just four
comedians sitting around shooting the
[__]
>> Yes. And often three of them you've
never heard heard heard of.
>> Three of them? Is And are we counting
Byron?
>> Okay, good
>> [laughter]
>> good point.
>> I have never heard of most of the people
that pass through
Comics Unleashed.
>> to follow comics, so I know one. I know
one at most,
>> [laughter]
>> but not much more than that.
>> Do women really You've always heard
about women looking at men's shoe size.
>> Right.
>> Is that true?
>> Yes, we do. We look at your shoe size,
we look at your hands.
>> We just I mean, if you have a small
shoe, we we tend to think, you know, you
might be lacking in some areas, but it's
not always true.
>> Um so,
I don't know. I feel like
I'm actually this is what you're saying
is really occurring to me now.
I'm done with my CBS affiliate news, my
local New York news, like good night.
They've said good night to me.
And you mean
that I'm going to be sitting here
watching Comics Unleashed?
>> Yes.
>> Which I'm I'm [clears throat] assuming
CBS isn't even making cuz it's been
being made for years.
>> Well, here's the interesting thing. It's
a completely different business model.
They're leasing it to Byron Allen. They
can't
>> [laughter]
>> They can't lose money on it.
>> Jason.
>> They can't He bought He's selling the
ads.
>> Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> Great.
>> So, to me
But to me what
>> He's rented the space.
>> He's rented the space. He's rented the
space. And so, but but so what does that
mean? That to me that says
low risk cuz you can't lose money if
you're leasing it.
Low reward. Not Comics Unleashed, the
ceiling is very low.
>> I'm now talking to you I'm talking to
you and I'm feeling sadder
about what has transpired.
I mean, I think that
there is a value
to this time slot and I think it's the
same
I think it's the same value that it had
at the peak of the format.
You know, when when our parents were
considering whether to have us.
>> Right.
>> Right. And it's the comfort and
stability. It's the thing that I think
Jimmy Fallon is sort of always being
dinged for trying to provide in terrible
times.
>> Oh, I love the
>> Sabrina Carpenter Velcro with a
basketball coming at her head.
Um that's I don't even know if that's a
>> the stake. I love the stake cuz no one
makes this case. No one makes the
defense of Jimmy Fallon. I think you
said like you by saying that Fallon
would you know Carson would be like
Fallon.
That's like the best
>> The nicest thing I've ever said about
Jimmy Fallon.
>> That's the thing [laughter] anyone said
about Jimmy Fallon. It's certainly in
the in the media.
>> I don't think he has any of Jimmy of of
Johnny Carson's qualities. I just think
that like the service the point of him
is
is similar, right?
>> Yes. I'm going to I'm going to I'm going
to
like yes and this take cuz I think it's
a I think it's a good take and I think
that um
Fallon also, as you put it, lowers the
temperature.
>> Mhm.
>> And despite what I think people think
this is they know exactly what they're
doing. And who's who do I mean by they?
Who's producing this, right? It's
>> It's Lorne Michaels.
>> It's Lorne Michaels. Lorne Michaels
understands things that no other
producer does.
>> god, Jason, [__] you.
>> [laughter]
>> Get out of here.
>> He understands that yes, every the
media's going to hate Jimmy Fallon and
maybe the ratings will you know,
whatever fluctuate, but the there is
like a there there he's providing this
old school showbiz need that hasn't
vanished, right? There's still people
who want that.
>> I am rolling my eyes so hard at you
right now. [laughter]
>> YOU ARE I
>> YOU'RE GOING TO MAKE ME CRY.
>> [laughter]
>> I hate you.
>> I did my part then. I did my part.
>> All right, fine. You
I mean, I already believed this in many
ways about Fallon, but now I'm just you
know what I'm doing. I'm just like doing
the
by extension Saturday Night Live. I
still think the show needs some
re-upholstering
>> [laughter]
>> and if and if it went off the air
tomorrow, still wouldn't shed a tear
because I did all that when it turned
50.
>> What about the Tonight Show went there?
How would you feel?
>> I
>> I'd be fine. But the problem But the
problem that you are identifying though
is that nothing comes in its place.
>> Yes.
>> Right?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> But like let's just say something does,
right?
>> Okay.
>> I'd like to introduce you to a little
game we play.
It's called late or hate.
>> Oh, no. Okay.
>> Is this person hosting a late night show
or do you hate them too much to let them
try?
>> [laughter]
>> No.
>> Uh Just give you a bunch of names.
>> All I got to say is late or hate.
>> Late or hate. All right.
>> That's it.
>> Uh
>> Wait, is this who I This is a prediction
or what I think?
>> Nah, just like what happens if What
would happen if?
>> Let's do it.
>> Uh Amy Poehler.
>> Oh, uh uh late. Late.
>> Ziwe.
>> Late. Late.
>> No.
What would it be like? I mean cuz we
already know she she she does the show
but like
the problem the thing that we're talking
about is as an institution. Like what
does she What do What would a person
like Ziwe need to do?
>> Ziwe's got range.
>> Yeah, sure.
>> Ziwe had a YouTube show. Then she went
to Showtime, had two seasons, was
canceled. I As far as I thought she was
done for.
>> be killed.
>> She cannot She cannot be killed.
>> She's better than ever now. She's back
on YouTube and she's not quite doing the
same sort of like she's doing some of
the like how many black friends you have
like trolling. But it's not It's a
little more traditional. And I think
she's a talent who could, just like all
these the the the the long-lasting late
night hosts,
evolve into a host. The fact that she
was able to reinvent herself now twice
subtly
>> Mhm.
>> tells me that she's she's got something
that could work.
>> I would definitely watch it.
>> Uh
>> [laughter]
>> Tina Fey.
>> Mhm. As a as a host?
>> Yes. You can You can say hate. We know
We That's contextual.
>> Okay. Okay. I mean
>> Late hate Jason.
>> Geez, I mean I I love Tina Fey, but I I
understand.
>> We all do. Yeah.
Uh Mark Maron.
>> You know, hate.
>> [laughter]
>> I mean you couldn't you know,
he I can
that that that's too too neurotic. Too
too
>> Also, I don't I mean talk about chafing
against the format. I just don't think
he'd enjoy the obligations of the job.
Um Ilana Glazer.
>> Uh
hate.
Um
>> Kenan Thompson.
>> That's interesting.
>> Like longest serving cast member on
Saturday Night Live. Like a real
stalwart in that he still is he
he is so professional on that show that
you barely notice
you know, that he's just doing support
work in a lot of these sketches. Yeah.
He's not even trying to get a laugh.
>> That's I never thought about that.
>> anyway.
>> Still is funny. It's actually kind of an
inspired idea because, right? What's he
What is he great at, right? As you say,
like if he could do What's Up With That
every every night.
>> can play off people. What does a talk
show do? Yeah, he's like makes the other
person funny, plays the straight man,
fills, you know, has the timing, sets it
He actually has a lot of the skills of a
great talk show. So the question is does
he want it? You know, it seems like he's
pretty entrenched where he is, but
>> Entrenched? I mean he could retire
tomorrow.
>> That's true, but he doesn't. Why?
>> I mean that's a great question.
>> I know, like
>> it's just a it's a good job,
>> It's a good job, but
>> It's a good job. He obviously What is
he? Is he 50 yet? Is he, you know,
mid-40s?
Like I mean I just think he seems
comfortable in a way that doesn't bother
me.
>> Yes. No, I agree.
>> Uh other people doing that it might
annoy me a little bit, but yeah. That
show needs a uncle.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> You [laughter] know, it needs a uncle.
Uh so Kenan. Later hate.
>> oh later hate. late late
um
>> [laughter]
>> Nick Kroll
Oh, you know Who I just saw on a like a
insurance commercial I don't like I'm
going to say late. selling? I've Oh,
yeah, I like this idea. Nick Kroll has
got kind of a variety
like a kind of vaudeville air about him.
He would come out as somebody. Yes, he
can come out and do a stick. He's like a
There aren't talents like Nick Kroll
anymore and that he's like a He could do
kind of a little bit of everything. I
actually think that could work. It's
funny cuz you don't want the late night
host isn't necessarily the most
brilliantly talented person. No. You
don't want
you know
Eddie Murphy's not going to be a late
night I mean he's on this list. He So
you Eddie Murphy late night god, you're
not going to get me to say hate for
Eddie Murphy, but but he wouldn't be a
good He's not a good fit. You want him
as a guest not Right, he's a great
guest. He's not a host. The but but
that's why I say like
Keenan makes all the sense in the world.
Nick Kroll he could do characters. He's
he's sharp. He
I and carbonate the format too, right? I
feel like he
I just would not trust him to come out
as Nick Kroll every night. Right? Right?
He'd be coming out to do a monologue as
the like Six Flags old man or something.
I don't know. What about this?
Let's say we you're you're king of the
world. Saturday Night Live dies. We
replace it Listen. Wait a sec. Wait a
sec. Wait a sec. We replace it with a
talk show with the DNA of a sketch show,
right? So Nick Kroll does tape sketches
for half [laughter] hour. Okay? He does
talk with one of them John Mulaney or
whatever for
another half hour. And then you could
have the last half hour for either weird
sketches or something you wouldn't have
it. What do you say? I say green light
this show.
>> [laughter]
>> But but what you're describing to me
is and we'll just end here. Like um
what you're describing to me is
the thing that made Colbert great in the
first place, right? Which is The Colbert
Report.
>> Yes, yes. Oh my god, yeah.
>> One of the great feats
of of performance in the history of
being other people, let alone yourself.
I would say.
>> Underrated, wildly underrated. The
Colbert Report was a like The Daily Show
in that it was a a fake news show, but
he was completely in character. And so
he would say one thing, which he and
then he would mean something else.
>> Right.
>> he had a real guest on who would be in
their real voice. So he had to respond
to them in real time.
>> in character.
>> but also having the second meaning and
having it also be funny. It was an
incredible improvisational high-wire act
that like comedy nerds fell in love with
and were amazed by, which is why he got
the show.
>> But that says to me like what I now
wonder as we're talking about this, like
just to end, is like what does
do you think he has another one of those
in him?
>> Mhm.
>> Impossible. Like just I don't know how
he did it
>> Yeah.
>> as many nights as he did it, but
could he do it again?
>> Mhm. I think it's possible, right? I
mean what that looks Look, Conan
provides the example. There was no
greater institutionalist in late night
than Conan O'Brien. He was offended when
they asked him to move The Tonight Show
back half an hour because it would
damage the franchise, right? But he
showed all those late night hosts that
you can reinvent yourself on podcast, on
Hot Ones, on an HBO travel show,
uh and you could have a bigger impact
and you could host the Oscars, right?
>> instantly one of the great Oscar hosts.
>> Exactly. And he's he's of of all the
hosts, he's closest friends with
Colbert. And so I think Colbert is going
to do my guess is he's going to use the
Conan thing as a model and have like a
collection of [music] projects, which
may or may not be like Colbert Report.
>> We'll see.
>> Yeah, we'll see.
>> I hope it is. All right, Jason Zinoman.
>> Thank you.
>> It was a pleasure. This is so much fun
to come on Cannonball.
>> Thanks thanks for doing it.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.